# T1A3 - Terminal Application

### Repository:  https://github.com/Mara-WebDevStandard/T1A3-TerminalApp

**Summary**

The application is a a game of blackjack in the terminal that can either be played interactively by a user or the user can instead watch a computer player play against the dealer (results will be output to the terminal)

## Usage Guide

### Dependencies System/Requirements
* OS - Any operating system on which Bash and Python can run 
* Bash
* Python3
* TESTING ONLY - Pytest

### Installation  
1. Please ensure Python3 is installed and accessible through PATH
2. Clone the repository
3. Ensure the current working directory is the root folder of the repository. 
4. Run the script blackjack.sh to play the game (you may need to set).
5. TESTING ONLY - Ensure Pytest is installed (may be installed using Pip) and accessible through PATH
6. Run the script run_tests.sh to execute the unit tests

**NOTE** - If running blackjack.sh or run_tests.sh scripts results in the error "Permission Denied", you may have to execute ``chmod u+x <file path>`` to make it executable

### Command Line options  
* **--help or -h**  
Prints all available command line options.
* **--rounds or -r**  
Sets the maximum number of rounds that can be played before the game ends (100 by default).
* **--dealer-funds or -d**  
Specifies the amount of funds (in $) that the dealer starts off with ($10,000 by default)
* **--player-funds or -p**   
Specifies the amount of funds (in $) that the player starts off with ($500 by default).
* **--simulation**  
Sets the game mode to simulation - a computer will play against the dealer and print the result (off by default). This option will automatically enable the summarize option too.
* **--summarize**  
Sets the game to print a concise summary of all rounds played at the end of the game (off by default).

## For Developers

**Code Style**

The python source aims to adhere to the style guide specified in PEP 8. The code will also be written in such a way that minimises the warnings generated by Pylint, a static analysis tool for the Python programming language.

### Features & Development Plan

*MVP - minimum viable product*

1. **MVP - the ability for a user to play an interactive game of blackjack on the terminal.**
    * Basic logic for representing cards and calculating the score of a hand
    * Creating scaffold code for the primary game loop (i.e dealing cards and taking player input)
    * Defining a player class that delegates to the user for choices and input (e.g. bet amount and whether to hit or stand)
    * Creating a dealer class and the the logic for the dealers strategy
    * Writing unit tests to validate the card calculation and portions of the game flow
    * Add error handling logic for user inputs (e.g repeat on invalid input and handle Ctrl-D and Ctrl-C gracefully)


2. **The addition of a simulation mode where the computer plays against the dealer and the player can observe the game.**
    * Add new class for a computer player. Use of the class's methods should be indistinguishable from a human player and computer player can have a simple strategy.
    * Add logic to limit rounds so that computer doesn't play forever
    * Make printing of game rounds conditional so use can see end result if desired
    * Add command line option to chose between the user playing interactively or watching the computer play.

3. **The ability to print a summary of all the previous rounds played in a concise format.**
    * Add a class that represents the state of a previous round (e.g. player/dealer cards, score, initial bet and winnings)
    * Add a function that summarises that prints the game state in a simple line
    * Store a list of the previous game states at the end of each round
    * Add a command line option to print all previous rounds played



## **References**

Rossum, G.V, Warsaw, B, Coghlan, N 2001, *PEP 8 – Style Guide for Python Code*, viewed 13 July 2023  
https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/

